JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff. Gwen Ifill is
away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
World Health Organization
announces the Zika virus is
spreading
explosively in the Americas,
predicting up to four million
people infected this year.
Also ahead this Thursday, we sit
down with Matthew Trevithick,
one of the Americans released
this month from an
Iranian prison.
MATTHEW TREVITHICK, Freed From
Iranian Prison: And he says, "Do
you know who Jason Rezaian
is?"
I said, "Of course. The whole
world knows that name." And he
said, next sentence, "He's
never leaving, and
neither are you."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the politics
of corn, how ethanol plays a
vital role in Iowa.
DAVID YEPSEN, Southern Illinois
University: Every member of the
United States Senate who
has run comes through Iowa and
offers up an ethanol program.
Everyone has to worship at
the altar of ethanol.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: United Nations
health experts issued a powerful
new warning today about
the Zika virus. The World Health
Organization said it may have
mushroomed into a full-blown
global emergency.
DR. MARGARET CHAN, Director
General, World Health
Organization: It is now
spreading explosively.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The sense of
urgency was palpable as WHO
Director Margaret Chan addressed
a
special session on the
Zika virus in Geneva.
DR. MARGARET CHAN: As of today,
cases have been reported in 23
countries and territories
in the region. The level of
alarm is extremely high.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Most of the
outbreak has been concentrated
across Central and South
America.
WHO officials estimated today
there could be three to four
million cases in the Americas
over the next year alone.
Brazil, hosting this summer's
Olympics, has been hit the
hardest, with more than a
million
people contracting the virus.
Fear has spiked there with a
rise in birth defects apparently
caused by Zika, babies born with
small heads, known as
microcephaly, and with
neurological
problems.
DR. MARGARET CHAN: The possible
links, only recently suspected,
have rapidly changed the
risk profile of Zika from a mild
threat to one of alarming
proportions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Researchers say
it's still relatively rare that
a pregnant woman infected
around the time of delivery can
pass the virus to her newborn.
There's also been one report
of a possible spread through
blood transfusion, and another
through sexual contact.
Today, Brazil's President Dilma
Rousseff announced a meeting of
Latin American and Caribbean
nations next week on how to
eradicate the virus. In the
meantime, some 220,000 Brazilian
soldiers are going house to
house, checking for stagnant
water and fumigating for
mosquitoes
that transmit Zika.
El Salvador has taken still more
drastic measures. Last week, its
deputy health minister urged
women to refrain from getting
pregnant before 2018. At least
31 Americans were infected
in the past year, but all are
believed to have contracted the
virus after traveling
to affected areas.
For now, there is no cure, and
the WHO says it could take years
to get a vaccine.
DR. SYLVAIN ALDIGHIERI, World
Health Organization: There is no
immunity. So we would expect
huge
numbers of infections, some
detected, some not detected.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The agency was
criticized for not moving
quickly enough on the Ebola
outbreak.
But it's calling a crisis
meeting for Monday on whether to
declare Zika an international
health emergency.
We will get an expert
perspective on Zika after the
news summary.
An armed militia group is down
to its last four holdouts at a
wildlife refuge in Eastern
Oregon. Three more surrendered
overnight, a day after seven
were arrested and one was
killed in a shoot-out. Their
jailed leader, Ammon Bundy, is
now urging the rest to -- quote
-- "stand down and go home."
His lawyer read a statement
from Bundy today.
LISSA CASEY, Attorney for Ammon
Bundy: Turn yourselves in. Do
not use physical force.
Use the national platform that
we have to continue to defend
liberty through our
constitutional
right in an Article 3 court
with an Article 3 judge.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In a YouTube
video posted today, one of the
remaining militia members said
they're willing to depart the
refuge, if police promise they
won't be arrested.
Dangerous winter sea crossings
to Europe turned deadly again
today. At least 25 migrants
drowned
when their boat sank off the
Greek island of Samos en route
from Turkey. Meanwhile,
the Italian navy rescued nearly
300 people, and recovered six
bodies off Sicily.
The Pentagon has announced it's
doubling paid maternity leave to
12 weeks for women in uniform
and military child care centers
will stay open longer.
Defense Secretary Ash Carter
said it's part of an effort to
recruit and retain a top-flight
military.
ASHTON CARTER, U.S. Defense
Secretary: We will become a more
powerful magnet for the
high-end talent we will need in
the coming generation. We will
make it easier to retain
the top talent we have and
to develop future leaders.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Carter also
called for greater health care
benefits for military women.
NASA today marked the 30th
anniversary of the Challenger
disaster. Six astronauts and
a teacher were killed on January
28, 1986, when a booster
exploded and blew the shuttle
apart. The crew of the
International Space Station
observed a moment of silence
today,
and a ceremony at Cape Canaveral
honored the men and women of
Challenger.
BOB CABANA, Director, Kennedy
Space Center: They continue to
motivate us to explore and
to never quit just because it's
hard. We are better for having
known them. They are a part
of us forever and we will
never let them down.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will take a
longer look at the Challenger
later in the program.
A former Providence, Rhode
Island, mayor who became a
larger-than-life figure has
died.
Buddy Cianci passed away this
morning in a Providence
hospital. He spent 21 years as
mayor, helped revitalize the
city and gained national
attention, but ultimately went
to
federal prison for corruption.
Buddy Cianci was 74 years old.
Wall Street gained ground for a
change today, as oil prices
climbed again. The Dow Jones
industrial average was up 125
points to close near 16070. The
Nasdaq rose 38 points, and
the S&P 500 added 10.
It turns out Hawaii and Alaska
are the places to be for your
own well-being. An annual
Gallup/Healthways
survey of all 50 states finds
Hawaii is number one when it
comes to a sense of well-being
for the fifth time since 2008.
Alaska is second, after coming
in first last year, and is
followed
by Montana, Colorado, and
Wyoming. And at the bottom, West
Virginia has the lowest ranking
for the seventh straight year.
And, finally, new times in toy
land. Mattel announced today
that Barbie dolls will now
be sold in three body types,
curvy, tall and petite, plus new
skin tones and hair styles,
to reflect a more diverse view
of beauty. And LEGO confirmed
there's a figure in a wheelchair
in an upcoming set. It's the
company's first depiction of
disabilities ever.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
what you need to know about the
rapidly spreading Zika
virus; an American student freed
from an Iranian prison speaks
out; when corn becomes
political,
the ethanol debate ahead of the
Iowa caucuses; and much more.
Just weeks ago, hardly anyone in
the U.S. knew what the Zika
virus was, much less worried
about it. But the World Health
Organization's warning today put
the Americas, including
the U.S., on new notice. And,
suddenly, a mosquito-borne virus
is raising serious fears,
especially for pregnant women.
Dr. Anthony Fauci is with the
National Institutes of Health,
and he updated the situation
today.
He joins us now from
the NIH campus.
Welcome back to the
program, Dr. Fauci.
Just how high a level
of concern is there?
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI, Director,
National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases: Well,
we certainly are taking this
very seriously. This is a new
virus for the Western Hemisphere
and the Americas. And it's been
explosive in its outbreak in
South America and in the
Caribbean.
One of the issues that you
mentioned that's important is
that it is associated, at least
temporally and geographically,
with a disturbing increase in
the incidence of a very serious
complication of pregnancy, and
that is fetuses having what's
called microcephaly.
And microcephaly is a problem
with the brain where the skull
and the head is small, and
there's a developmental problem
and/or a damage problem to the
brain, leading to dire
consequences,
often death, but
major impairment.
Zika as a virus infection itself
is relatively mild, and that's
the reason why it's been
essentially off the radar screen
of people until it came in with
a vengeance to South
America. It causes a mild
illness that lasts anywhere from
three to five to seven days,
and then it goes away,
and you're fine.
It's the potential complication
that we're seeing in South
America and in the Caribbean
with regard to pregnancy. And
it's interesting, because it's
an association that hasn't been
completely proven to
be cause and effect.
It certainly is associated, and
it's puzzling, and we're trying
to figure out just what the
nature of this association is
between infection and pregnant
women and this problem of
microcephaly
in the fetus and in the infant.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is it understood
why this is spreading so fast?
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI: Well, one of
the reasons that we see spread
like this, Judy, is that,
up until now, South America and
the Caribbean has been what we
call immunologically naive
to Zika virus. They have never
had Zika virus in the Western
Hemisphere or in the Americas.
And so when a new infection like
this comes in, there's no
background immunity in the
population that would blunt the
outbreak that we're seeing now,
whereas something like dengue
infection has been prevalent in
South America, particularly in
Brazil, for several years
now. So there's that background
immunity to it. No such immunity
with Zika.
It's perfectly new to them,
which makes it much, much easier
to explode in the population.
That, together with the fact
that they're loaded with
mosquitoes, who are the vectors
of this particular virus
infection. The Aedes aegypti
mosquitoes are all over South
America
and Brazil, and that's the
perfect vector to spread this
infection.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we have
talked about pregnant women.
Should everyone be concerned?
Just women? I mean, who
should be most worried?
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI: Well,
certainly the focus is on women
who are pregnant.
And that is the reason why the
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, the CDC, has
given a guideline travel alert
that, if an individual, a woman
is pregnant, planning
to be pregnant, not sure if
they're pregnant, they should
seriously consider postponing
any travel to this region.
And it is recommended that they
actually postpone until this
situation gets clarified because
of this association with
this dire consequence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what about
for men? I mean, for men who
contract the virus, can they can
they pass it onto a woman
through sexual contact?
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI: Well,
that's a good question.
What has happened is, first of
all, for a man who has no issue
with passing it on to
a woman sexually, it's a mild
illness. But there is a single
case that has been reported
of a man who was infected in the
region, went home to his wife,
had sex with his wife, and
she definitely got infected with
Zika, and she had never left the
country.
So, that's one example. We don't
know if that's an outlier that's
a very rare event, or if
that is something that we will
see more commonly. And the way
you find out is do careful
following
and natural history studies and
case control studies. So we're
paying close attention to
that. We're not sure how
significant it's going to be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, as we
reported a minute ago, there's
no vaccine yet, no treatment.
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI: That is
correct. Vaccines under certain
circumstances such as this,
with a new virus and a new
disease, generally take a few
years before you have a vaccine
that's approved by the
regulatory authorities and ready
to be distributed.
So, we're not thinking about
that for at least another three
to five years. However, since
we have experience with similar
viruses, we are now in the
process of beginning the early
stages of developing a vaccine
for a phase one trial to
determine safety and whether
or not it induces the
proper immune response.
And we fully expect that we will
be able to be into that phase
one trial within the calendar
year of 2016.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And beyond that,
just warning people to stay away
from these affected areas.
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI: Well, that's
the truth. In other words, you
have got to be careful,
particularly with pregnant
women, to make sure that if they
are pregnant, that they
go by the CDC guidelines and, as
best as possible, avoid travel
to these areas.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Dr. Tony Fauci
at the NIH, we thank you.
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI:
Good to be with you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we return to
the stories of the Americans
recently freed from detention
in Iran, and turn to our
interview with one of those set
free on January 16.
For that, we go to
Hari Sreenivasan.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We heard for
the first time today from Jason
Rezaian, the Washington Post
reporter released from more than
500 days' imprisonment by
Iranian authorities. He was
part of a prisoner swap with
Iran that released four
Americans in exchange for
Iranians here
in the U.S.
Rezaian spoke at the
headquarters of the paper this
morning.
JASON REZAIAN, Journalist
Detained in Iran: For much of
the 18 months I was in prison,
my Iranian interrogators told me
that The Washington Post didn't
exist, that no one
knew of my plight, and that the
United States government
wouldn't lift a finger for my
release.
Today, I'm here in this room
with the very people who helped
prove the Iranians wrong
in so many ways.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There was a
fifth American released from
prison in Iran, separate from
the deal that freed Rezaian and
three others. His name is
Matthew Trevithick, and he had
been held for 40 days in
Tehran's notorious Evin prison.
Trevithick was in Tehran to
study Farsi when he was detained
late last year.
He joins me now from New York.
So, why were you in prison?
What did the authorities say?
MATTHEW TREVITHICK, Freed From
Iranian Prison: So, I was
arrested and accused of trying
to
overthrow the Iranian
government. And they said I had
access to bank accounts with
millions
of dollars in them, and that I
knew the locations of weapons
caches around the country.
And when I pointed out to them
that the only things I had in my
possession were Farsi textbooks,
a newspaper or two, some flash
cards and a pencil, well, they
weren't very happy to hear
that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Right. So what
happened? How were you arrested?
MATTHEW TREVITHICK: On my way to
buy my plane ticket home, I had
just talked with my parents
the day before on Skype and
said, really looking to being
home -- really looking forward
to
being home for Christmas and New
Year's, and I think my time here
is done. I have been
here for just over three months.
And I have seen some things, and
it's time to come home.
The next morning, I was walking
outside of the dorm. It's a
student dorm at Tehran
University.
And just, you know, a few feet
from the front gate, three men
jumped out of a car, asked
me one question,
"Matthew?" I said, "Yes."
And they pushed me into the
backseat, and off we went to
Evin prison.
HARI SREENIVASAN: When were the
conditions in that prison like?
What was the room you
were staying in like?
MATTHEW TREVITHICK: I was in
solitary confinement for 29
days. And it's a very small
room. It's
about six-feet-by-seven-feet, as
I measured it. And I'm just over
six feet tall myself,
so this makes for a pretty
cramped -- pretty cramped
living.
There's no bed. There's no
pillow. You know, it's a
concrete floor with a very thin
carpet
over it that's been very worn.
And, you know, that feeling of
worn, of things being used
was very -- I mean, it was a
very consistent theme in my
time.
Inside the prison, you are very
well -- you're very aware that
you're in a place where a
lot of people have been before
you, and most likely a lot of
people will be after you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You were in
solitary for that long. Did you
meet other prisoners in
the time that you were not,
and what were they in for?
MATTHEW TREVITHICK: I did.
When I started to cross paths
with other prisoners, I was
moved out of solitary
confinement at
the evening of day 29, and
stayed in what they referred to
as a suite -- I disagreed
with their terminology a bit --
where two other prisoners there
were, and they had seen
other prisoners come
and go as well.
And that's, I think, when you
start to become more aware of
who you are sharing this
building
with. It was there that I
learned that Jason Rezaian was
downstairs. It was there that
I learned that newspaper
editors, journalists,
dissidents, artists, poets,
intellectuals,
et cetera, were all
in the cells nearby.
And, you know, that also -- you
draw a small amount of comfort
from knowing who you're
sharing this building with.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You know,
Jason Rezaian mentioned today
that he was constantly told
that the paper that he worked
for didn't exist, right?
When you're in solitary, you
obviously have no access to
information that the rest of
the world is trying to work on
behalf of you to try to get you
released. What kept you
going through all this?
MATTHEW TREVITHICK: You know, in
fact, before I answer your
question, the very first
sentence
they said to me on day one, you
know, within an hour of being
taken off the street, my
interrogators pacing the --
right behind me, and I'm facing
a wall and can't see his face.
And he says, "Do you know
who Jason Rezaian is?"
I said, "Of course. The whole
world knows that name." And he
said, next sentence, "He's
never leaving, and
neither are you."
And that was the tone by which
we started. That set the tone
for my time there.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, did you
imagine that the United States
government was working on
your behalf or your parents?
MATTHEW TREVITHICK:
Yes, absolutely.
I had a very simple check-in
system with my mother every day.
We'd shoot each other a
text note, and say, hi, Matt.
How is everything? Hi, mom,
everything is going really well.
Thanks. Or everything
is going fine. Thanks.
And I think when I started to
not reply to those messages, she
got a little more concerned.
And then something very bizarre
happened. On day three, they
hand me my phone, and they
said, we want you to call your
mother. And they had prepared a
very stilted script that
I had to kind of
regurgitate from memory.
And they said, call your mother
and tell her you're going to the
mountains for a while
and will not be in
communication. And, of course,
calling a mother and trying to
say
everything is fine when it's not
fine, I don't think that ever
works.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Right.
MATTHEW TREVITHICK: And -- but,
no, I mean, to answer your
question, you know, in my time
overseas in the Middle East and
Central Asia, you know, you
start to become aware of just
how hard so many people work the
minute an American goes missing
anywhere.
And I spent time in the cell
wondering who got my file on
Christmas and who got my file
on New Year's, and I kind of
felt a little guilty about that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Hey, you sent
out a tweet today that I wanted
a little explanation of.
It says basically this photo
sums up your entire feelings
about Iran. It was a -- tell
me what, does that mean?
MATTHEW TREVITHICK: So, it's a
photo. I'm at the Golestan
Palace in Tehran. And the
backdrop of the photograph is
beautiful Persian artwork, you
know, traditional mosaic tiling.
And it's absolutely captivating.
And, you know, so in one sense,
that, you know, deep
beauty and sort of romance is --
of the culture is demonstrated
in the photograph. And then
on one side of the photograph,
my friend who took the picture
just managed to capture the
fact that, you know, somebody in
uniform was watching me as I
posed and smiled for the
picture.
And I just think that that sense
of always being watched and
always being under surveillance
is what some Iranians live with
and it's what all foreigners
know is happening. And, you
know, you do -- you hope to deal
with one more than the other.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally, you
have worked in Afghanistan for a
number of years. You
have lived in Turkey. This is
part of your life's work. Do you
plan to go back to the
region? What are
your plans next?
MATTHEW TREVITHICK: I will
certainly be heading back, but I
think Iran and I have had enough
for now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Matthew, thanks so much for
joining us.
MATTHEW TREVITHICK:
Absolutely. Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
end of economic growth as we
know it; 30 years after the
Challenger
space shuttle tragedy; and
Radiolab's host on the
timelessness of his profession.
But, first, we are getting close
to voting time in the
presidential race, and it seems
this wild campaign
continues to surprise.
Joining me now on this night
when most, but apparently not
all, Republicans will be
debating,
is our political director,
Lisa Desjardins.
Hello, again, Lisa.
LISA DESJARDINS: Whew. Hello.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hello.
So, Donald Trump,by saying he is
not going to be in this debate
tonight, manages to be
right in the center of the
limelight, all over a dispute
he's been having with FOX News
Channel.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What's going on
here? You have been talking to
people.
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What is it that
they think Trump is trying to
do?
LISA DESJARDINS: When you talk
to people, Republican
operatives, about this, they
think
Trump is trying to show that he
defies the rules that he doesn't
like, that he deifies
the establishment when he thinks
the establishment is wrong.
His supporters love this, Judy.
They think, here is someone who
can finally not just say
they're going to change
Washington, but will do things
unexpected that will make a
difference,
take action.
But, of course, his opponents
say this shows an unpredictable
candidate who operates and
reacts on emotion,
not substance.
So, he is taking a risk there,
but it seems his supporters
really love him doing this.
And, of course, he's using the
proceeds to benefit veterans,
but even there is an interesting
sign about Trump. We don't know
yet what veterans groups it is
supporting. He hasn't announced
it. The event is tonight.
So it's Trump again making a
statement, but not giving us
details.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, meanwhile,
what about the Republicans who
are going to be showing
up on the debate stage tonight?
This is an unusual moment for
them. What do they need
to do?
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
In the prime-time debate, there
are still seven other
Republicans who each of them
think
they still have a chance to be
president, and for most of them,
Judy, tonight is make
or break. Let's start
with Ted Cruz.
Now, he is right there with
Donald Trump, in a sense, or
they're fighting for a lot
of the same space. But when I
talk to operatives about him,
they say Ted Cruz was doing fine
when he didn't engage with
Donald Trump. In the last week,
he has engaged, Judy, and Ted
Cruz hasn't really landed any
punches on Donald Trump. It has
not shown a strength for Ted
Cruz.
So, he has a major decision
tonight for everyone watching
the debate. Does Ted Cruz go
after
Donald Trump or not? Then you
turn to the rest of the field. I
think this could be a
very important night for John
Kasich. Talking to people in New
Hampshire, Judy, there is
a tremendous amount of interest
in John Kasich. He seems to be
sort of rising as someone people
are looking to as very human,
practical, and smart, and I
think he needs to stand out on
his own two feet tonight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meantime, you
have got the other party, the
Democrats, again being
overshadowed,
but Bernie Sanders out with a
new ad and announcing a
different position on an
important issue.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right,
starting with the ad. This is an
ad that doesn't name anyone,
but does say that there's a
problem with Wall Street
donating too much money to
political
campaigns and politicians.
I don't think Bernie Sanders is
talking about Ross Perot.
Clearly, this is a swipe at
Hillary
Clinton. The Clinton campaign
came out today and said they see
this as an attack ad, that
Bernie Sanders has gone
negative. Clearly, he's making a
move here.
At the same time as he's going
on office against her, he is
going on defense. He announced
today that he is co-sponsoring a
bill that would reverse a bill
he voted for on guns
in 2005. Many of our viewers
know that's the controversial
bill that would protect some
gun makers from civil lawsuits.
Sanders supported it in the
past. He's reversed his position
this January. Clinton's gone
after him again and again in
debates. It will be interesting
to see what happens in our
debate coming up in a
couple weeks on that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And this
happening just five days before
the caucuses.
LISA DESJARDINS: It's a lot.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's
a lot to digest.
Lisa Desjardins, keeping
track of it all, thank you.
LISA DESJARDINS: My pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now we
turn to the politics of corn.
The issue of ethanol briefly
took center stage in Iowa last
week, when Governor Terry
Branstad
declared caucus-goers should
choose anyone but Senator Ted
Cruz for president.
Cruz has promised to repeal the
law that requires ethanol in the
nation's fuel supply.
David Biello is the senior
energy and environment editor
with "Scientific American," and
he
is working with Detroit Public
Television on a documentary
about ethanol that will air
this fall.
He reports for us from Iowa.
DAVID BIELLO: Pocahontas, Iowa,
one of the many small-town stops
on Senator Ted Cruz's
bus tour.
Cruz is being followed by an
R.V., calling him out for his
opposition to ethanol. This
shadow campaign comes courtesy
America's Renewable Future, a
pro-ethanol group.
WOMAN: Good morning.
MAN: Hi.
WOMAN: Here's some information
on Iowa's economy.
WOMAN: Thank you.
WOMAN: Yes. Thanks.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate: Because
I don't believe Washington
should
pick winners or losers, I
believe we should end the RFS
and phase it out over five
years.
DAVID BIELLO: The Renewable Fuel
Standard, the RFS, was created
by Congress 10 years
ago. It's regulated by the
Environmental Protection Agency,
and requires 10 percent ethanol
to
be blended into 95
percent of our gasoline.
Most ethanol comes from corn.
And Iowa is the heart of the
Corn Belt. Ethanol is now
part of the fabric of the
Iowa's rural economy.
Craig Peterson's farm in Dayton,
Iowa, has been in his family for
nearly 150 years.
CRAIG PETERSON, Iowa Farmer: A
lot of my corn goes to the local
elevators, and they haul
it right to the ethanol plants.
There's like three ethanol
plants 25 miles away.
DAVID SWENSON, Iowa State
University: You're not allowed
to talk bad about ethanol. This
is Iowa.
DAVID BIELLO: David Swenson is
an Iowa State University
economist.
DAVID SWENSON: It's no different
than if you bad-mouth coal in
West Virginia or timber
in Oregon. You're going to get
blowback, no matter what
happens. And that's the way it
is with ethanol in
the state of Iowa.
DAVID BIELLO: David Yepsen has
covered Iowa politics for more
than 30 years.
DAVID YEPSEN, Southern Illinois
University: Over the years, the
biggest winner of the
Iowa caucuses has been the
ethanol industry. And I say that
because every member of the
United States Senate who has run
comes through Iowa and offers up
an ethanol program. Everyone
has to worship at the
altar of ethanol.
DAVID BIELLO: We found Donald
Trump at a renewable fuels
conference in Altoona, just
outside
of Des Moines.
QUESTION: What convinced
you on ethanol?
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate: I just feel strongly
we should do everything
we can to create fuel,
everything we can to create
fuel.
DAVID BIELLO: Democrats Hillary
Clinton and Bernie Sanders
support the RFS too. The ethanol
debate this year is
just among Republicans.
Eric Branstad, the son of Iowa's
popular Republican Governor
Terry Branstad, leads America's
Renewable
Future, that group following
Ted Cruz in the R.V.
ERIC BRANSTAD, America's
Renewable Future: I would say
that Carly Fiorina has turned
into one of our
better candidates.
DAVID BIELLO: Branstad's ethanol
report card shows some
candidates have changed their
position
after setting foot in Iowa. Now
all but two make the grade.
Looking at this, it's kind of
an anybody but Cruz or Paul.
ERIC BRANSTAD: That's
what it comes down to.
DAVID BIELLO: And neither
Senators Ted Cruz nor Rand Paul
have budged.
SEN. RAND PAUL (R-KY),
Presidential Candidate: If push
comes to shove and I have to
vote
for the Renewable Fuel Standard,
I'm not an advocate of it.
DAVID BIELLO: Ted Cruz
remains the big concern.
SEN. TED CRUZ: God bless
the great state of Iowa.
DAVID BIELLO: He's near the top
of the polls with the caucuses
days away.
DAVID YEPSEN: One of the reasons
you're hearing a lot about
ethanol now is that the industry
is very concerned that, if Ted
Cruz wins here, having shown
some question about Renewable
Fuel Standards, it will open the
floodgate. It will make it
permissible for presidential
candidates not to support a
strong Renewable Fuel Standard.
ERIC BRANSTAD: From his first
hour coming to Iowa, he put that
badge on and said that,
I am against the RFS, period.
DAVID BIELLO: Iowa Republican
Congressman Steve King supports
the RFS, but he's also
national co-chair of Ted
Cruz's presidential campaign.
NARRATOR: King promised to fight
for Iowa's farmers, calling
ethanol and renewable fuels
our Holy Grail. But now King
calls Senator Ted Cruz the
answer to his prayers. Senator
Cruz is fighting in Congress to
end the Renewable Fuel Standard.
DAVID BIELLO: Iowa
economist David Swenson:
DAVID SWENSON: Not only is
Representative King an ardent
supporter of ethanol. His
district
has the highest concentration of
ethanol plants in the United
States.
DAVID BIELLO: King has said he
will defend the RFS, and will
even go against Cruz should
Cruz become president. Here,
King explains his position to a
room full of ethanol producers.
REP. STEVE KING (R), Iowa: From
where I sit, as much as I care
about renewable fuels, it's
not the only thing.
DAVID BIELLO: King says Cruz's
constitutional and moral
principles need support, despite
Cruz's stand on the RFS. Cruz
does appear to have shifted a
bit on ethanol. Some feared
he'd repeal the RFS immediately.
Now it's a five-year phase-out.
But only recently,
he's claimed to be even more
pro-ethanol than the others,
because its the RFS's fault
ethanol
hasn't reached its
full potential.
SEN. TED CRUZ: You want to talk
about a big impact for Iowa for
corn farmers, for ethanol
producers, getting rid of that
government barrier is a much,
much bigger deal than the
RFS.
DAVID BIELLO: Dave Vander Griend
runs a Kansas-based ethanol
technology company. He wants the
RFS
eliminated too, and managed to
get Cruz's attention two months
ago. The EPA limits the
amount of ethanol in our fuel
supply to 10 percent, the
standard E10 most of us use,
or the less popular and less
available E85 you can use if you
have a flex-fuel vehicle.
DAVE VANDER GRIEND, CEO, ICM,
Inc.: What do I want to put in
my car? Do I want to put
an E10, E20, E30, E85? I want
those choices. I want those
opportunities and I want to be
able to save money.
DAVID SWENSON: That's a fanciful
idea. And it doesn't feel very
good. They're saying
that the ethanol industry can
produce ethanol more cheaply
than the petroleum industry can
produce gasoline, and that they
can compete. There's no evidence
of that. There's absolutely
no evidence of that.
DAVID BIELLO: A recent Des
Moines Register poll shows most
Iowans still favor the RFS.
But only one in five Iowans
actually works in an
agriculture-related industry.
The question
remains, how hard will Iowans
fight for ethanol in the
caucuses?
David Yepsen doesn't think
ethanol will be a deciding
factor.
DAVID YEPSEN: Other issues are
driving this election, national
security questions, social
issues, and, most importantly,
what people think of the
candidate as a human being. You
know, they don't sit there with
a clipboard and say ethanol, yes
or no, and that's how
they decide their vote.
DAVID BIELLO: It's not just the
caucuses. Come November, if Ted
Cruz or Rand Paul wins
the Republican nomination,
Iowans may just get another
chance to show just how much
they
support ethanol.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
David Biello in Des Moines,
Iowa.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And a reminder:
Tomorrow, I will be reporting
from Iowa on the race for
the White House. Be sure to tune
to the "NewsHour" all weekend
and Monday for the latest on the
Iowa caucuses.
We will air at our regular time.
Plus, we will have a late-night
special report Monday
night at 11:00 Eastern.
One of the key themes you hear
in this presidential campaign
is, why isn't the economy
growing
faster and yielding even better
wages for workers? That question
isn't just a matter
of debate among politicians.
Some economists are also
wondering if something
fundamental has changed in the
U.S. in recent
decades.
That's the subject of tonight's
report by our economics
correspondent, Paul Solman.
It's part of his series, Making
Sense, which airs Thursdays.
PAUL SOLMAN: President Obama's
last of State of the Union
featured this proud
proclamation:
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States: Anyone claiming
that America's economy is
in decline is peddling fiction.
PAUL SOLMAN: But really? Tell
that to eminent economist Robert
Gordon, a Democrat, who's
peddling a distinctly
nonfictional new book, "The Rise
and Fall of American Growth."
ROBERT GORDON, Author, "The Rise
and Fall of American Growth":
Did you know that the
cable car dates back to 1870,
the beginning of what I call the
special century, when life
was revolutionized in
the United States?
PAUL SOLMAN: A century that
ended in 1970, 46 years ago.
Gordon's thesis that slower
growth is the new normal in the
U.S. has sparked a major debate
in economics the past few years.
His book was a hot topic at this
year's meeting of the American
Economic Association in San
Francisco.
BOB SHILLER, Nobel Laureate:
It's what you call a magnum
opus.
PAUL SOLMAN: That's Nobel
laureate Bob Shiller, this
year's president of the group,
who organized
a session on the new book and
chaired it himself to spotlight
Gordon and his special century
thesis.
ROBERT GORDON: A century that
freed households from an
unremitting daily grind of
gainful
manual labor, household
drudgery, darkness, isolation
and early death.
PAUL SOLMAN: There seems little
dispute in economics these days
that 1870 to 1970 was
technologically special.
WOMAN: No one who hasn't cooked
over a wood stove by the light
of a kerosene lamp can
really appreciate
what it all means.
PAUL SOLMAN: So it was an
amazing century, right?
ERIK BRYNJOLFSSON, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology: It was
an amazing century.
We took so much muscle power,
things that used to be done by
horses or by humans, and
replaced it with machines.
PAUL SOLMAN: But MIT's Erik
Brynjolfsson doesn't buy the
argument that the U.S. economy's
best
days are over.
ERIK BRYNJOLFSSON: We're now
just in the early stages of what
we sometimes call a second
machine age, where we're
beginning to do the same things
for brainpower, things like
artificial
intelligence, computers and big
data. And I think we're going to
see a productivity
wave the likes of which we
have never seen before.
ROBERT GORDON: It's just a hope
that Erik has that these new
inventions of robots and
artificial intelligence are
going to change the world on a
par with electricity and the
internal combustion engine.
Just think of the benefits of
getting rid of the urban horse.
Think of all the horse
droppings all over the street
that we no longer have to think
about and clean up.
PAUL SOLMAN: To counter those
who consider his cavalier
dismissal of high technology
so much, well, horse manure,
Gordon took us on an intimate
show-and-tell.
ROBERT GORDON: Look at a few of
the things that were invented in
the special century
after 1870, starting with the
electric light, the greatest
invention of all. And now let's
look at two of the great
inventions of all time. First,
we have running water, which
eliminated the need to carry
water into the house in pails.
And then we have the flush
toilet, which eliminated the
need to go outside into the
bitter cold
to an outhouse. And here we have
a double invention, central
heating and air conditioning.
We have the telephone invented
in 1876. We have the television
set, partly invented here
in San Francisco by Philosophy
Farnsworth, and then look what
we have hidden down here,
a refrigerator, which eliminated
the contamination of food.
And here we have the Golden Gate
Bridge, an example of the
tremendous investment in
infrastructure
that made our economy grow so
fast in the middle of the 20th
century. This bridge was
finished in 1937.
NARRATOR: The Golden
Gate is bridged.
PAUL SOLMAN: Put them all
together, says Gordon, and
there's been no comparable
stretch of
economic growth before or since.
ROBERT GORDON: Here is the basic
point of my book. The early 20th
century, the middle
of the 20th century between 1920
and 1970, and all the years
since then, and the role
of innovation and technology is
that black area at the bottom.
And when we highlight
it we see that in the middle of
the 20th century, we were
growing three times faster than
we
have been in the last 40 years.
PAUL SOLMAN: And not only were
the really big inventions
already on the market by 1970.
This footage of the 1962 Seattle
World's Fair suggests the ones
we consider big today were
already in the works.
NARRATOR: One day, you may be
able to call home and
automatically turn off the oven
or,
from a public telephone, water
the lawn during that dry spell
when you are many miles away
on vacation. Sounds
fantastic, doesn't it?
PAUL SOLMAN: Critics like
Brynjolfsson don't dispute the
wonders of the past. They just
think we haven't
seen anything yet.
ERIK BRYNJOLFSSON: It's been
said that the greatest failing
of the human mind is the
inability to understand the
exponential function. And that's
especially true in the computer
era, where computer power
doubles about every 24 months or
so.
PAUL SOLMAN: Exponential growth
like 2-4-8-16 and so on.
ERIK BRYNJOLFSSON: What that
does is, it leads us to
overestimate what's going to
happen
in the short run, because at
first it's happening fairly
slowly, but then we
underestimate what
happens in the long run,
when things really take off.
PAUL SOLMAN: Bob Gordon scoffs.
ROBERT GORDON: But computers
have been riding this
exponential wave for the last 50
years,
and it's not shown
up in productivity.
PAUL SOLMAN: In measured GDP
output per unit of labor, that
is.
ROBERT GORDON: We have gone from
the mainframe to the personal
computer to the smartphone,
and only in the late 1990s did
we see a revival of productivity
growth of the kind of magnitude
to match the great old days of
electricity and the invention of
the motorcar and the
airplane.
PAUL SOLMAN: Productivity, says
Gordon, has slowed to a crawl
for years now, what's called
long-term or secular stagnation.
ERIK BRYNJOLFSSON: The last time
people were talking a lot about
stagnation was in the
1930s. And guess what? The next
couple of decades were the best
decades ever for economic
growth.
PAUL SOLMAN: Admittedly,
Americans have been
techno-overoptimists before.
ACTOR: The 9000 series is the
most reliable computer ever
made. We are all foolproof and
incapable of error.
PAUL SOLMAN: The year 2001 came
and went without any manned
space odysseys of note.
ACTOR: Open the pod
bay doors, Hal.
PAUL SOLMAN: Much less ones with
the likes of artificially
intelligent Hal.
ACTOR: I'm sorry, Dave. I'm
afraid I can't do that.
PAUL SOLMAN: But most striking
to us is the near-universal
agreement about the headwinds
now facing U.S. economic growth:
problems in education, an aging
population, a huge
national debt, and, most of
all, growing inequality.
Economic historian Greg Clark
said he's long been a
techno-optimist. But after
reading
Gordon's book:
GREGORY CLARK, Economic
Historian, University of
California, Davis: I am actually
convinced
now that the best of America is
behind us in terms of economic
growth.
PAUL SOLMAN: Clark titled his
talk "Winter Is Coming," a nod
to the grim TV series about
a more primitive time,
HBO's "Game of Thrones."
GREGORY CLARK: I titled it that
way because I was struck, when I
looked at the future
of the U.S. economy, how much it
was going to resemble the
medieval economy.
PAUL SOLMAN: The
medieval economy?
GREGORY CLARK: The medieval
economy, in terms of the types
of jobs that people now are
doing,
gardening, food preparing,
serving, cleaning, bricklaying,
carpentry. You could get someone
from 1400, put them on the job
and in two hours, they'd be
perfectly functional.
PAUL SOLMAN: Working, that
is, but hardly getting by.
And to Robert Gordon, the
connection between stagnant
wages and today's political
unease
is obvious.
ROBERT GORDON: Because the heart
of slow wage growth is slow
productivity growth. And added
to that is the inequality that
is siphoning off the little
productivity that we have got
into the top 1 percent. And so
the bottom 99 percent have good
reason to be resentful
and anxious.
PAUL SOLMAN: For the "PBS
NewsHour," this is economics
correspondent Paul Solman,
reporting
from San Francisco.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the
anniversary of the Challenger
shuttle tragedy, and how it
changed
the U.S. space program
for years to come.
It was 30 years ago today when
we watched the Challenger
explode on live television
just a little more than a minute
after it lifted off. All seven
people aboard, including
a high school teacher who became
the first ordinary citizen to go
into space, were killed.
President Ronald Reagan was
supposed to deliver the State of
the Union speech that night.
Instead, he spoke to the
country from the Oval Office.
Here is some of what he said
in a video we produced.
MAN: Three, two, one, and
liftoff, liftoff of the 25th
space shuttle mission, and it
has cleared the tower.
MAN: Challenger, go
with throttle-up.
RONALD REAGAN, Former President
of the United States: Today is a
day for mourning and
remembering.
Nancy and I are pained to the
core by the tragedy of the
shuttle Challenger. We know
we share this pain with all the
people of our country. This is
truly a national loss.
WOMAN: Here comes the
flight crew now.
RONALD REAGAN: We have never
lost an astronaut, not in
flight. We have never had a
tragedy
like this.
And perhaps we've forgotten the
courage it took for the crew of
the shuttle, but they,
the Challenger seven, were aware
of the dangers, but overcame
them and did their jobs
brilliantly.
We mourn seven heroes, Michael
Smith, Dick Scobee, Judith
Resnik, Ronald McNair, Ellison
Onizuka, Gregory Jarvis, and
Christa McAuliffe. We mourn
their loss as a nation together.
The crew of the space shuttle
Challenger honored us by the
manner in which they lived their
lives. We will never forget
them, nor the last time we saw
them, this morning, as they
prepared for their journey and
waved goodbye and slipped the
surly bonds of Earth to touch
the face of God.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That was 1986.
Jeffrey Brown has more about
that moment, that day, and the
years since.
He spoke earlier today with our
science correspondent, Miles
O'Brien, who has extensively
covered
the space program.
JEFFREY BROWN: Miles,
welcome to you.
You know, one of the reasons why
this is so remembered is because
it really is so personal,
so many people seeing it as it
happened on live television or
right afterwards. Do you
have a personal memory to share?
MILES O'BRIEN: I
do. Don't we all?
Thirty years ago, if you were
alive and old enough, you
remember where you were. I sent
a tweet out today and heard all
kinds of vivid stories that
people had.
For me, I was a local reporter
in Tampa, Florida. I had been up
all night in citrus groves
covering
the freeze, that historic
freeze, which ultimately led to
the loss of Challenger, was a
big deal
for the citrus industry.
So, I was asleep when Challenger
exploded. I got a call from my
office, said, you better
wake up and get to work. And I
walked outside in Tampa,
Florida, 150 miles away, and
looked
up in the blue sky, and saw that
horrible, forked rocket plume.
You could see it that
far away. And I looked at
it and was just stunned.
JEFFREY BROWN: And, of course,
the presence of Christa
McAuliffe, as a private citizen,
captured the imagination of the
whole country at that time,
right? Remind us what her role
was. Why was she there?
MILES O'BRIEN: She was there as
the teacher in space, and she
had lesson plans, and she
was going to go into space and
teach children, you know, from
space about the wonders of
physics and science.
And she was an enthusiastic
teacher who won a competition to
be on the space shuttle.
And classrooms all over the
country were tuned in and
watching this launch live, so
excited
to think that a teacher would be
up there and speaking to them in
a matter of days and
teaching them about space, and
that turning in an instant to
just horror.
JEFFREY BROWN: And then, of
course, when you look back
through time and you look at the
impact of what happened on the
shuttle program, on NASA, first
came, of course, a long
investigation
into exactly what had caused it.
MILES O'BRIEN: Yes.
And it really led to a big loss
of innocence, I think, for all
of us in how we viewed NASA.
You know, sure, in the Apollo
program, we lost three
astronauts, 19 years almost to
the day prior to Challenger on
the launchpad for Apollo 1, but
they were test pilots, and
they knew the score, and we were
in the midst of a space race.
In the case of Challenger, it
was different. NASA was telling
us that space access would
be routine. The shuttle was
going to be a lot like an
airliner, so safe that we can
put civilians on board,
including, on the previous
flight, then-Congressman Bill
Nelson,
and, of course, Christa
McAuliffe on this flight.
So the idea that NASA was
telling us it was safe, and the
investigation laid bare the
fact that they knew it wasn't as
safe, and that they were
ignoring serious signs of
trouble
really changed the way
we all viewed NASA.
JEFFREY BROWN: The Columbia
shuttle disaster happened in
2003. You have been on the
program
a number of times. We have
talked about sort of where
things are at now, the program
coming
to an end in 2011. What -- how
do you think about the legacy of
Challenger and since?
MILES O'BRIEN: It's a great case
study in the limits of
technology and some of the
decisions
that are made in the
development of technology.
One of the key things to
remember here is, space shuttles
didn't have a crew escape
system.
If it had a crew escape system,
those seven crew members would
have very likely survived
that day. All of the previous
space flights involving human
beings from the U.S. did in
fact have that crew
abort capability.
Spacecraft today that are being
developed as follow-ons to the
space shuttle will all
have that capability. The
shuttle was really a dangerous
craft. It was --
technologically,
it was pushing a lot of
boundaries. And there were
compromises made in the
development to
save money that made it
ultimately not very safe.
That's a hard lesson, a lesson
that I think has been learned.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
Challenger disaster 30 years ago
today.
Miles O'Brien, thanks so much.
MILES O'BRIEN: You're
welcome, Jeff.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now we bring
you a unique profile of two
female high school students
who refuse to let gender
stereotypes get in the way of
their passion for building and
learning with their hands. This
is the fourth installment of our
student reporting labs
series called outside the box,
and it's produced by the
aspiring journalists at hughes
stem
high school.
REP: Only 9 percent of U.S.
construction workers are women,
which is a relatively small
percentage
compared torg industries. In the
morning, typical females have a
hard time picking out
what they want to wear, but not
sierra. They worry about safety
gear and tool belts, a
hard hat and goggles are all
they need each morning as they
prepare to use the skills
required in the
construction pathway.
I chose construction because it
was a hobby to me. It was
something I always knew how
to do. I was small playing with
leg expose I ended up playing
with tools and it's just
something I love.
My family is OK with all this.
Whatever I choose, I choose.
They go along with me. They're
pushing me to motivate
me to keep going.
I plan to be a carpenter, and
just keep doing hands-on, which
is hands-on. I can't just
sit back and watch all the fun.
I want to be able to tear things
down, build it. It's
just a passion.
What I have learned is how to
use a power tool properly. There
are a lot of things that
can hurt you in construction.
Like, you can poke your eye out.
It gets difficult working with
the boys, but they get used to
me because I'm just as strong
as them. I know just
as much as them.
Some of the female students tend
to be some of my better
students, some of the sharper
student, good leaders, good
managers, and they do a great
job.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Take a good
listen to this next story. It's
all about the power of sound,
and finding your voice.
Jad Abumrad is the host and
creator of Radiolab. It's a WNYC
Radio studio's podcast.
And he's the subject of this
week's Brief But Spectacular.
It's our series where we
ask interesting people to
describe their passions.
JAD ABUMRAD, Radiolab: Radio is
such a cool thing, precisely
because it doesn't have that,
that thing, that evil thing
right there. It lacks pictures.
It creates a kind of active
empathy, where you literally are
co-authoring the experience
with me. You're finishing the
deed. I love radio precisely
because it's empty of the
things that you are awash in,
my impoverished friends.
I often hear Radiolab on the
radio, and I -- it's -- look,
let's just be honest, it's
annoying on the radio. The radio
is across the room. You're
trying to do 12 things. The
kids are running back and forth.
It's really hard to listen
casually to it, because then
it just zooms by and
you miss something.
I feel like we are actually now
more a podcast than we are a
radio show. I do not know one
20-year-old that has a radio.
It's being redefined. It's not
the box on the mantelpiece
anymore.
It's our phones and our devices
and whatever the next three
versions of that will be. The
radio will live on
that in some way.
I grew up as an Arab kid in
Nashville, Tennessee. And then I
would go to Lebanon, and I would
be the American kid, so I was
never quite in or out there. I
was always in this weird
in-between space, which I think
is very normal for a lot of
immigrant kids.
Now that I look back on it, I
feel like it was kind of a gift.
It gives you this weird
way of being of something, but
standing apart from it. You
learn to sort of look at things
in a way that's really helpful
when you're a journalist.
The confusion of my adolescence,
my identity, I carry that
forward in a way, in a very deep
way, into the show. This is not
a show about knowing what you're
talking about. You actually
hear us sometimes uncomfortably
fumbling through the dark on our
way to a slightly better
understanding.
But those sort of intermediate
places are awkward. And, I don't
know, it's just an awkwardness
I know very well from having
grown up that way, as this Arab
kid in Tennessee. The
awkwardness
used to feel like a bad thing.
Now it just feels like work. It
just feels like my job.
Hey, I'm Jad Abumrad, and this
is my Brief But Spectacular take
on why radio will never
die.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now we bring
you a unique profile of two
female high school students
who refuse to let gender
stereotypes get in the way of
their passion for building and
learning with their hands.
This is the fourth installment
of our Student Reporting Labs
series called Outside the Box,
and it's produced by the
aspiring journalists at Hughes
STEM High School in Cincinnati,
Ohio.
NARRATOR: Only 9 percent of U.S.
construction workers are women,
which is a relatively small
percentage compared
to other industries.
In the morning, typical females
have a hard time picking out
what they want to wear, but
not Sierra Buster and Channell
Rogers. They worry about safety
gear and tool belts. A
hard hat and goggles are all
they need each morning as they
prepare to learn the skills
required in the
construction pathway.
CHANNELL ROGERS, Student: I
chose construction because it
was a hobby to me. It was
something
I always knew how to do. I was
small playing with LEGOs, and I
ended up playing with tools.
And it's just something I love.
SIERRA BUSTER, Student: My
family is OK with all this. They
-- whatever I choose, I choose.
They go along with me. They're
pushing me to motivate me to
keep going.
CHANNELL ROGERS: I plan to be a
carpenter, and just keep doing
hands-on, just hands-on.
I can't just sit back and watch
all the fun. I want to be able
to tear things down, build
it. It's just a passion.
SIERRA BUSTER: What I have
learned is how to use a power
tool properly. There are a
lot of things that can hurt you
in construction. Like, you can
poke your eye out.
CHANNELL ROGERS: It gets
difficult working with the boys,
but they get used to me, because
I'm just as strong as them. I
know just as much as them.
WEST DAVIS, Teacher, Woodward
Technical High School: Some of
the female students tend to
be some of my better students,
some of the sharper students,
good leaders, good managers,
and they do a great job.
JUDY WOODRUFF: To see more
student-produced stories that
reveal how today's teens are
breaking down gender barriers,
visit the Outside the Box page
on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the
"NewsHour" for tonight.
On Friday, I report from Iowa
with the latest on the race for
the White House in the last
days before the caucuses.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow evening. For all
of us at the "PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.